README.md, before:

Gibraltar Loupe Agent for NLog 2.0
=====================


Adapting your .NET Application's NLog logging to include Loupe
--------------------------------------------------------------

To convert your .NET application's existing use of the NLog logging framework to include Loupe you need:

* (recommended) Download and install the latest version of Loupe Desktop to view the logs
* The Agent.NLog project containing the class file: GibraltarTarget.cs 
* Your NLog configuration file (app.config, NLog.config, NLog.dll.nlog, etc), 
  or source code if programmatic configuration is used.

To add this Gibraltar.Agent.NLog library to your solution or build process
--------------------------------------------------------------------------

1. Check that the Reference to the NLog library points to where you have it on your system or build process.  If needed,
    either add the correct reference and delete the broken one, or else edit the project file directly and correct the path.
2. Confirm that the Reference to the Loupe Agent (Gibraltar.Agent) is valid, or correct it.  It's highly
  recommend you use NuGet to get the latest Loupe Agent. 
3. Build this project and either add this project to your application as a dependency or copy the
    Gibraltar.Agent.NLog.dll library it builds to wherever you keep external library dependencies.
4. Also include the Gibraltar.Agent.dll and Gibraltar.Packager.exe in your distribution and installation in the
    directory for your application executable.

Adjust your configuration to use the GibraltarTarget
----------------------------------------------------

Loupe is intended as a top-level catch-all to collect all of your logging in one managed place so you can filter
as needed dynamically during analysis.  To do this, modify the _extensions_, _targets_, and
_rules_ sections of your NLog configuration as follows:

1. Include Gibraltar.Agent.NLog as an extension:

```XML
<add assembly="Gibraltar.Agent.NLog" />
```

2. Add the GibraltarTarget as a target:

```XML
<target name="Gibraltar" xsi:type="Gibraltar" />
```
(or drop the "xsi:" prefix--just type="Gibraltar"--if not using explicit namespaces)

3. Add a rule sending all logging to the GibraltarTarget:

```XML
<logger name="*" minlevel="Trace" writeTo="Gibraltar" />
```
(we recommend that it be the first rule- or at least before any "final" rules - to avoid missing any).

If you find minlevel="Trace" too voluminous for normal collection, the minlevel may be set at
"Debug" instead.  Also, see the example App.config file in the Gibraltar.Agent.NLog project,
and consult the [NLog configuration documentation](http://nlog-project.org) as needed.

Make sure to log something to Loupe early in your application to load the Loupe
Agent and initialize its automatic monitoring features.  For example:</p>

```C#
mainLogger.LogInfo("Entering application.");
```

Building the Agent
------------------

This project is designed for use with Visual Studio 2012 with NuGet package restore enabled.
When you build it the first time it will retrieve dependencies from NuGet.

Contributing
------------

Feel free to branch this project and contribute a pull request to the development branch. 
If your changes are incorporated into the master version they'll be published out to NuGet for
everyone to use!

Commit message:

Added pointer to just use the NuGet package

README.md, after:

Gibraltar Loupe Agent for NLog 2.0
=====================

This agent extends NLog to send messages to Loupe.  If you don't need
to modify the source code just download the latest 
[Loupe Agent for NLog 2 From NuGet](https://www.nuget.org/packages/Gibraltar.Agent.NLog2/). 
It extends the [Loupe Agent](https://nuget.org/packages/Gibraltar.Agent/) so you can 
use any viewer for Loupe to review the agent's information

Adapting your .NET Application's NLog logging to include Loupe
--------------------------------------------------------------

To convert your .NET application's existing use of the NLog logging framework to include Loupe you need:

* (recommended) Download and install the latest version of Loupe Desktop to view the logs
* The Agent.NLog project containing the class file: GibraltarTarget.cs 
* Your NLog configuration file (app.config, NLog.config, NLog.dll.nlog, etc), 
  or source code if programmatic configuration is used.

To add this Gibraltar.Agent.NLog library to your solution or build process
--------------------------------------------------------------------------

1. Check that the Reference to the NLog library points to where you have it on your system or build process.  If needed,
    either add the correct reference and delete the broken one, or else edit the project file directly and correct the path.
2. Confirm that the Reference to the Loupe Agent (Gibraltar.Agent) is valid, or correct it.  It's highly
  recommend you use NuGet to get the latest Loupe Agent. 
3. Build this project and either add this project to your application as a dependency or copy the
    Gibraltar.Agent.NLog.dll library it builds to wherever you keep external library dependencies.
4. Also include the Gibraltar.Agent.dll and Gibraltar.Packager.exe in your distribution and installation in the
    directory for your application executable.

Adjust your configuration to use the GibraltarTarget
----------------------------------------------------

Loupe is intended as a top-level catch-all to collect all of your logging in one managed place so you can filter
as needed dynamically during analysis.  To do this, modify the _extensions_, _targets_, and
_rules_ sections of your NLog configuration as follows:

1. Include Gibraltar.Agent.NLog as an extension:

```XML
<add assembly="Gibraltar.Agent.NLog" />
```

2. Add the GibraltarTarget as a target:

```XML
<target name="Gibraltar" xsi:type="Gibraltar" />
```
(or drop the "xsi:" prefix--just type="Gibraltar"--if not using explicit namespaces)

3. Add a rule sending all logging to the GibraltarTarget:

```XML
<logger name="*" minlevel="Trace" writeTo="Gibraltar" />
```
(we recommend that it be the first rule- or at least before any "final" rules - to avoid missing any).

If you find minlevel="Trace" too voluminous for normal collection, the minlevel may be set at
"Debug" instead.  Also, see the example App.config file in the Gibraltar.Agent.NLog project,
and consult the [NLog configuration documentation](http://nlog-project.org) as needed.

Make sure to log something to Loupe early in your application to load the Loupe
Agent and initialize its automatic monitoring features.  For example:</p>

```C#
mainLogger.LogInfo("Entering application.");
```

Building the Agent
------------------

This project is designed for use with Visual Studio 2012 with NuGet package restore enabled.
When you build it the first time it will retrieve dependencies from NuGet.

Contributing
------------

Feel free to branch this project and contribute a pull request to the development branch. 
If your changes are incorporated into the master version they'll be published out to NuGet for
everyone to use!
